README.md, before:

## ROandaAPI

R Code API for Forex Trading with OANDA Broker (CFTC and SEC regulated retail broker). This code is a series of functions for using the Oanda REST API, more about Oanda can be read at their [HomePage](http://www.oanda.com/)

- **Initial Developer:** IF.FranciscoME
- **License:** GNU General Public License
- **Location:** Guadalajara, México

## Previous Reading

At Oanda one can trade more than just *FOREX* market, but mainly it is that, so in order to have a better comprehension about what *FOREX* trading actually is:

- **Wiki source:** [Investopedia](http://www.investopedia.com/university/forexmarket/)
- **Authority:** [Office of Investor Education and Advocacy](http://www.sec.gov/investor/alerts/forextrading.pdf)

And about What and API, REST API are ?

- **Mayor Brand source:** [IBM Developer Works](http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/library/ws-restful/)
- **Wiki source:** [RestApiTutorial](http://www.restapitutorial.com/lessons/whatisrest.html)

## Getting Started

1. **Have an account:** You must actually get an account with OANDA, either *Live* or *Practice* is ok and exactly the same, if you do not have one you can create it from here [Open Account](https://fxtrade.oanda.com/your_account/fxtrade/register/gate?utm_source=oandaapi&utm_medium=link&utm_campaign=devportaldocs_demo)

2. **Get REST API Access:** Log in -> Search for *Manage API Access* link -> *Generate Personal Access Token*

3. **Save Info Safely:** Having that *Token* is like having your password, so keep it safe. If you ever lost it or need to change it, its ok and the previous one goes deprecated as soon as you generate another one, so you can *Revoke* it whenever you want.

## More Official Resources

OANDA has a dedicated page to provide all sort of help and examples for developers, in many languages, you can always go there and consider have a resource full place for you Algorithmic Trading.

- [Developtment Guide](http://developer.oanda.com/rest-live/development-guide/) Basic introductory guide
- [Authentication](http://developer.oanda.com/rest-live/authentication/) When Authentication Enters
- [Troubleshooting](http://developer.oanda.com/rest-live/troubleshooting-errors/) Breath and then Read
- [Sample Codes](http://developer.oanda.com/rest-live/sample-code/) So this actually works, huh?
- [Interactive Console](http://developer.oanda.com/rest-practice/console/) Try before implement

## *R* Requirements
- Any version its ok.
- Does not have to be used RStudio or any other GUI for *R*.
- Specific packages will be needed, i just added a code in order to autodetect them and install them if you havent yet

The previous packages are actually necessary not for running the functions, those are regular expressions of R, but when you call and execute them in your code. Thats because some functions i used inside the API. in case you prefer have access to this API with one line of code, you can use the following and the functions will available locally *(Note: You must run this code every time you begin R Session).*

## Step by Step for Minimal Example

### 1. Install Required Libraries

Install required libraries if not already installed, if they are installed just load them.

```r
Pkg <- c("base","downloader","forecast","httr","jsonlite","lubridate","moments",
"PerformanceAnalytics","quantmod","reshape2","RCurl","stats","scales","tseries",
"TTR","TSA","xts","zoo")

inst <- Pkg %in% installed.packages()
if(length(Pkg[!inst]) > 0) install.packages(Pkg[!inst])
instpackages <- lapply(Pkg, library, character.only=TRUE)
```

### 2. Load in local environment the ROandaAPI Code

Uses the function *source_url* from the package **downloader** to source a R script located in a *GitHub* repository.

```r
downloader::source_url("http://bit.ly/GitHubROandaAPI",prompt=FALSE,quiet=TRUE)
```

### 3. Data Inputs

**AccountID** is a 7 digit number, the input must be numeric, **Token** is where yours go, and the **Start** and **End** are dates in format *"YYYY-MM-DD".

```r
AccountType <- "practice"
AccountID   <- 1234567
Token       <- "ba207fab3522f33fda6a91dbfee0522f6-cdbba372874e6e69e4694f050f890277"
TimeAlign   <- "America%2FMexico_City"
Granularity <- "H6"
Start <- "2015-01-01"
End   <- "2015-10-01"
```

### 4. Two Functions as an example

**InstList** in order to get the available instruments in *Oanda* , and **HisPrices*** to get the historical prices of the selected instrument, in this case the 117th so is the *XAU_USD*, that is Gold Vs Usd.

```r
InstList     <- data.frame(InstrumentsList(AccountType,Token,AccountID))[,c(1,3)]
Instrument   <- InstList[117,1]
PastPriceAPI <- HisPrices(AccountType,Granularity,DayAlign,TimeAlign,Token,Instrument,Start,End)
```

Commit message:

ReadMe File for Last Update in code

README.md, after:

## ROandaAPI

R Code API for Forex Trading with OANDA Broker (CFTC and SEC regulated retail broker). This code is a series of functions for using the Oanda REST API, more about Oanda can be read at their [HomePage](http://www.oanda.com/)

- **Initial Developer:** IF.FranciscoME
- **License:** GNU General Public License
- **Location:** Guadalajara, Mexico

### Last Update 16-08-2016

It was added the **Count** option to the HisPrices function, that is for retrieving a fixed amount of
candles instead of retrieving whatever number of candles is present in a date range from **Start** to
**End**. It is still available the option of getting the historic prices from a date range though. The
**Count** option is to use the smaller granularity values since from 1 day to another there are more
than 5000 candles and that is the limit from *OANDA* for the amount of history available per request.
So now every request of Historic prices must include the **Count** parameter, if the request is for a
date range the value of Count must be **NULL**, if the request is for a fixed amount of candles,
the the values of **Start** and **End**, both, must be **NULL**.


## Previous Reading

At Oanda one can trade more than just *FOREX* market, but mainly it is that, so in order to have a better comprehension about what *FOREX* trading actually is:

- **Wiki source:** [Investopedia](http://www.investopedia.com/university/forexmarket/)
- **Authority:** [Office of Investor Education and Advocacy](http://www.sec.gov/investor/alerts/forextrading.pdf)

And about What and API, REST API are ?

- **Mayor Brand source:** [IBM Developer Works](http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/library/ws-restful/)
- **Wiki source:** [RestApiTutorial](http://www.restapitutorial.com/lessons/whatisrest.html)

## Getting Started

1. **Have an account:** You must actually get an account with OANDA, either *Live* or *Practice* is ok and exactly the same, if you do not have one you can create it from here [Open Account](https://fxtrade.oanda.com/your_account/fxtrade/register/gate?utm_source=oandaapi&utm_medium=link&utm_campaign=devportaldocs_demo)

2. **Get REST API Access:** Log in -> Search for *Manage API Access* link -> *Generate Personal Access Token*

3. **Save Info Safely:** Having that *Token* is like having your password, so keep it safe. If you ever lost it or need to change it, its ok and the previous one goes deprecated as soon as you generate another one, so you can *Revoke* it whenever you want.

## More Official Resources

OANDA has a dedicated page to provide all sort of help and examples for developers, in many languages, you can always go there and consider have a resource full place for you Algorithmic Trading.

- [Developtment Guide](http://developer.oanda.com/rest-live/development-guide/) Basic introductory guide
- [Authentication](http://developer.oanda.com/rest-live/authentication/) When Authentication Enters
- [Troubleshooting](http://developer.oanda.com/rest-live/troubleshooting-errors/) Breath and then Read
- [Sample Codes](http://developer.oanda.com/rest-live/sample-code/) So this actually works, huh?
- [Interactive Console](http://developer.oanda.com/rest-practice/console/) Try before implement

## *R* Requirements
- Any version its ok.
- Does not have to be used RStudio or any other GUI for *R*.
- Specific packages will be needed, i just added a code in order to autodetect them and install them if you havent yet

The previous packages are actually necessary not for running the functions, those are regular expressions of R, but when you call and execute them in your code. Thats because some functions i used inside the API. in case you prefer have access to this API with one line of code, you can use the following and the functions will available locally *(Note: You must run this code every time you begin R Session).*

## Step by Step for Minimal Example

### 1. Install Required Libraries

Install required libraries if not already installed, if they are installed just load them.

```r
Pkg <- c("base","downloader","forecast","httr","jsonlite","lubridate","moments",
"PerformanceAnalytics","quantmod","reshape2","RCurl","stats","scales","tseries",
"TTR","TSA","xts","zoo")

inst <- Pkg %in% installed.packages()
if(length(Pkg[!inst]) > 0) install.packages(Pkg[!inst])
instpackages <- lapply(Pkg, library, character.only=TRUE)
```

### 2. Load in local environment the ROandaAPI Code

Uses the function *source_url* from the package **downloader** to source a R script located in a *GitHub* repository.

```r
downloader::source_url("http://bit.ly/GitHubROandaAPI",prompt=FALSE,quiet=TRUE)
```

### 3. Data Inputs

**AccountID** is a 7 digit number, the input must be numeric, **Token** is where yours go, and the **Start** and **End** are dates in format *"YYYY-MM-DD".

```r
AccountType <- "practice"
AccountID   <- 1234567
Token       <- "ba207fab3522f33fda6a91dbfee0522f6-cdbba372874e6e69e4694f050f890277"
TimeAlign   <- "America%2FMexico_City"
Granularity <- "H6"
Start <- "2015-01-01"
End   <- "2015-10-01"
```

### 4. Two Functions as an example

**InstList** in order to get the available instruments in *Oanda* , and **HisPrices*** to get the historical prices of the selected instrument, in this case the 117th so is the *XAU_USD*, that is Gold Vs Usd.

```r
InstList     <- data.frame(InstrumentsList(AccountType,Token,AccountID))[,c(1,3)]
Instrument   <- InstList[117,1]
PastPriceAPI <- HisPrices(AccountType,Granularity,DayAlign,TimeAlign,Token,Instrument,Start,End)
```
